# AI_Virtual_Assistant_Using_Python

A project to build an AI voice assistant using Python . The Voice assistant interacts with the humans to perform basic tasks.


### About Ra-One :



Ra-One is an AI personal voice assistant service built using Vs code. It can understand human speech and perform basic task designed by the client.

When the user specify the appropriate trigger words , The Ra-One gets activated and executes the user commands.


Ra-One AI Voice assistant:"Loading your personal Assistant Ra-One....
                          Hello, Good Morning" (Greets the user according to time)



### The implemented Voice assistant can perform the following tasks:


1. Opens a wepage : Youtube , G-Mail , Google Chrome , StackOverflow 
	
	
		Human : Hey Ra-One, Open Youtube
		
		
2. Predicts time 
	
	
		Human : Hey Ra-One , What is the time
		
		
3.Fetch Top headlines from Times of India
	
         
		Human:Hey Ra-One , what's the latest news?
		
		
4. Captures a photo
	
  		
		Human:Hey Ra-One, Take a photo
		
		
5. Searches data from web
	
   		
		Human: Hey Ra-One, Search Butterfly images from web
		
		
6. Ask geographical and computational questions
	
  	 	
		Human: Hey Ra-One, What is the capital of California? / Hey Ra-One what is Sin 90?
		
		
7. Predict Weather of different Cities
   		
	
		Human: Hey Ra-One , What is the weather likely now in Kerala?
		
	
8. Abstarct necessary information from wikipedia
	
   		
		Human: Hey Ra-One , Who is Bill Gates according to Wikipedia
		
		
   The voice assistant abstarcts first 3 lines of wikipedia and gives the information to the user.
	
	
9. Ask Ra-One about what task it can perform and who created it
	
   		
	  	Human: Hey Ra-One, Who created you? / Hey Ra-One , What can you do
		
		
10.Turn off your pc when required
   		

   		 Human: Hey Ra-One , Please turn off my PC



### Libraries required to be installed using Pip Command:
	
	1.Json
	
	2.request
	
	3.Speech recognition
	
 	4.Pyttsx3
	
	5.Wikipedia
	
	6.Ecapture
	
	7.time
	
	8.Wolfram Alpha


### In-Built libraries required to be imported:

	1.os
	
	2.datetime
	
	3.web browser
	
	4.subprocess



Ra-One uses Third party API's to predict weather in different cities and to ask computational and geographical questions. 
Free API keys can be generated by creating an account in the following applications.  
	
	Open Weather Map - To forecast weather
	
	WolframAlpha - To answer questions
	







